DEVELOPING.md, before:


# Developing

This app is developed using the following tools:

* [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) - Dev server, compiling and reloading
* [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) - JavaScript package manager
* [VueJS](https://vuejs.org/) 3.x - JavasScript reactive component framework
* [Typescript](https//typescriptlang.org/) - Javascript language with strong typing
* [Rust](https://rust-lang.org/) - Safe system-level language
* [Cargo](https://crates.io/) - Rust package manager
* [Tauri](https://tauri.app/) - Desktop webview based app development and runtime system

## Setup your Build Environment

### ArchLinux

````sh
$ sudo pacman -Syu
$ sudo pacman -S --needed \
       webkit2gtk \
       base-devel \
       curl \
       wget \
       openssl \
       appmenu-gtk-module \
       gtk3 \
       libappindicator-gtk3 \
       librsvg \
       libvips \
       yarn
````

If you do not have rust installed yet:

````sh
$ curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh
````

In any case

````sh
$ rustup update
$ cargo install tauri-cli
````

## Develop

Run dev environment

````sh
$ cargo tauri dev
````

Build just the rust part without running

````sh
$ (cd src-tauri && cargo build)
````

Building and packaging full output

````sh
cargo tauri build
````

Building and packaging full output with debugging

````sh
cargo tauri build --debug
````

Output is in `src-tauri/target/debug/gossip`

## Upgrading dependencies

### Yarn

````sh
$ yarn upgrade @tauri-apps/cli @tauri-apps/api --latest
````

### cargo

````sh
$ cargo update
````

## How the app was initialized (no need to do this again)

Approximately like this (with config file edits in-between)

````sh
$ yarn create vite
    Project Name: gossip
    Select a framework: Vue
    Select a variant: TypeScript
$ cd gossip
$ yarn add -D @tauri-apps/cli
$ yarn add @tauri-apps/api
$ cargo tauri init
    App name: gossip
    Window title: Gossip
    Assets loc: ../dist
    Dev server: http://localhost:5173/
    Frontend dev command: yarn run dev
    Fronend build command: yarn run build
$ cargo tauri dev
````

Commit message:

Depend on tokio-unstable features (and minimum rust version 1.64)

DEVELOPING.md, after:


# Developing

This app is developed using the following tools:

* [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/) - Dev server, compiling and reloading
* [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) - JavaScript package manager
* [VueJS](https://vuejs.org/) 3.x - JavasScript reactive component framework
* [Typescript](https//typescriptlang.org/) - Javascript language with strong typing
* [Rust](https://rust-lang.org/) - Safe system-level language
* [Cargo](https://crates.io/) - Rust package manager
* [Tauri](https://tauri.app/) - Desktop webview based app development and runtime system

## Setup your Build Environment

### ArchLinux

````sh
$ sudo pacman -Syu
$ sudo pacman -S --needed \
       webkit2gtk \
       base-devel \
       curl \
       wget \
       openssl \
       appmenu-gtk-module \
       gtk3 \
       libappindicator-gtk3 \
       librsvg \
       libvips \
       yarn
````

If you do not have rust installed yet:

````sh
$ curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh
````

In any case

````sh
$ rustup update
$ cargo install tauri-cli
````

Minimum rust version is 1.64 (for the process_set_process_group feature).

## Develop

Run dev environment

````sh
$ cargo tauri dev
````

Build just the rust part without running

````sh
$ (cd src-tauri && cargo build)
````

Building and packaging full output

````sh
cargo tauri build
````

Building and packaging full output with debugging

````sh
cargo tauri build --debug
````

Output is in `src-tauri/target/debug/gossip`

## Upgrading dependencies

### Yarn

````sh
$ yarn upgrade @tauri-apps/cli @tauri-apps/api --latest
````

### cargo

````sh
$ cargo update
````

## How the app was initialized (no need to do this again)

Approximately like this (with config file edits in-between)

````sh
$ yarn create vite
    Project Name: gossip
    Select a framework: Vue
    Select a variant: TypeScript
$ cd gossip
$ yarn add -D @tauri-apps/cli
$ yarn add @tauri-apps/api
$ cargo tauri init
    App name: gossip
    Window title: Gossip
    Assets loc: ../dist
    Dev server: http://localhost:5173/
    Frontend dev command: yarn run dev
    Fronend build command: yarn run build
$ cargo tauri dev
````
